The NumPy web team has begun redesigning
[*https://numpy.org*](https://numpy.org/) determined to transform the
website into a welcoming and useful digital hub of all things NumPy. We
are inviting all members of our large and diverse community to submit
their user stories to help us fulfill our mission.

***What are we looking for?***

In simple, concise terms, a user story describes what a user needs to
accomplish while visiting a website. Anyone who reads the user story
must be able to understand why the user needs the functionality, and
what is required to implement the story. User stories must have
acceptance criteria. The shorter the story the better.

***Examples of good user stories***

1\. Lotte is a library author that depends on NumPy. She is looking for
information about major changes and a release date of the next version
of NumPy. She would like to easily find it on the website instead of
contacting the core team.

2\. Yu Yan was introduced to NumPy in her first week of the Foundations
of Data Science class. She is looking for a NumPy tutorial for absolute
beginners in Mandarin.

3\. Tiago is a software developer. By day, he builds enterprise
applications for a Fortune 100 company. By night, he cultivates his
academic interests in statistics and computer science using various
Python libraries. Tiago has an idea for a new NumPy feature and would
like to implement it. He is looking for information on how to contact
the person(s) in charge of such decisions.

***Please note*** that at this stage of the
[*numpy.org*](http://numpy.org/) redesign our focus is not on expanding
or improving the documentation but, rather, developing high-level
content to provide information about the project to a multitude of
stakeholders.

.
