This privacy policy discloses the privacy practices for
*https://www.numfocus.org/* and any other web site operated by NumFOCUS,
Inc., P.O. Box 90596, Austin, Texas, 78709 (“Provider”), and all related
technologies, software, and services provided by Provider (collectively,
the “Services”), including: (i) information you provide through your
user account on the Services (your “Account”) if you register for the
Services; (ii) your use of the Services; and (iii) from third-party
websites, services, and partners. This privacy policy applies solely to
information collected by the Services. It will notify you of the
following:

-   What personal data is collected from you through the Services, how
    > it is used and with whom it may be shared.

-   What choices are available to you regarding the use of your
    > personal data.

-   The security procedures in place to protect the misuse of your
    > personal data.

-   How you can correct any inaccuracies in your personal data.

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy or NumFOCUS’s data
collection, use, and disclosure practices, please contact us at
privacy@numfocus.org.

**Information Collection, Use, and Sharing** 
---------------------------------------------

We have access to/collect information that you voluntarily provide to us
via email, online forms or other direct contact from you, such as your
name, email address, home address, telephone number, and credit card
information.

We will use your information to deliver the services you have requested,
respond to you regarding the reason you contacted us, maintain our
records, customize the content and layout of the Services, and to
contact you regarding information about the Services, including updates
and, with your consent, new services.

As is true of most websites, we also gather certain information
automatically and store it in log files based upon usage of our
Services. This information includes internet protocol (IP) addresses,
browser type, internet service provider (ISP), referring/exit pages,
operating system, date/time stamp, and click-stream data. We use this
information, which does not identify individual users, to analyze
trends, to administer the Services, to track users’ movements around our
sites and to gather demographic information about our user base as a
whole. We do not link this automatically-collected data to personal
data. For detailed information on our use of cookies, see the
**Cookies** section below.

We may share your personal data with third parties outside of our
organization as necessary to provide the Services to you and to secure
the Services. Identifying and non-identifying user information and data
may be disclosed or distributed to a third party with which we enter or
reasonably may enter into a corporate transaction, such as credit card
processing.

We transmit your personal data to the third parties named below in order
to provide the Services to you and to secure the Services. To the best
of our knowledge, your personal data will be processed and stored in the
United States, insofar as the named parties are based in the United
States. Your data may be processed and stored in another country if the
parties named below use non-U.S. facilities for data storage and
processing.

-   Cloudflare (U.S.)

-   Eventbrite (U.S.)

-   Flipcause (U.S.)

-   Google (U.S.)

-   Little Green Light (U.S.)

-   Mailchimp (U.S.)

-   TypeForm (Spain)

-   WordPress (U.S.)

-   WP Engine (U.S.)

-   Zapier (U.S.)

-   NumFOCUS Staff (U.S.)

-   NumFOCUS Committee Members (U.S., U.K., Germany, Poland, The
    > Netherlands, Italy, India, Argentina, France, Spain)

-   NumFOCUS Board Members (U.S., Belgium, Canada)

We will disclose information we maintain when required to do so by law
or in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a)
conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on
us; (b) protect and defend our rights or property; and, (c) act under
exigent circumstances to protect the personal safety of our users or the
public.

Aggregated demographic information may be shared with our partners
and/or affiliates. This is not linked to any personal information that
can identify any individual person.

**Links** 
----------

Our Services may contain links to other sites. Please be aware that we
are not responsible for the content or privacy practices of such other
sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and
to read the privacy statements of any other site that collects
personally identifiable information.

**Cookies** 
------------

The Services use cookies and other similar technologies, in accordance
with industry standards. A cookie is a piece of data stored on a site
visitor’s hard drive to help us improve your access to the Services and
identify repeat visitors to the Services. For instance, when we use a
cookie to identify you, you would not have to enter a password more than
once, thereby saving time. Cookies can also enable us to track and
target the interests of our users to enhance the user experience. We
store information that we collect through cookies, log files, and/or
clear gifs to record your preferences. We may also automatically collect
information about your use of features of the Services, about the
functionality of the Services, frequency of visits, and other
information related to your interactions with the Services. We may track
your use across different websites and services. In some countries,
including countries in the European Economic Area (“EEA”), the
information referenced above in this paragraph may be considered
personal information under applicable data protection laws. Usage of a
cookie is in no way linked to any personally identifiable information on
our sites.

As stated above in the section on **Information Collection, Use, and
Sharing**, we use this information, which does not identify individual
users, to analyze trends, to administer the Services, to track users’
movements around our sites and to gather demographic information about
our user base as a whole.

We use analytics providers such as Google Analytics. Google Analytics
uses cookies to collect non-identifying information. Google provides
some additional privacy options regarding its Analytics cookies at
http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/partners/.

If you are uncomfortable with the idea of your information being used in
this way, most computer systems and web browsers offer privacy settings
and options, such as disabling cookies or opting for “Do Not Track”
features. We do not override these settings or options, and encourage
you to use them to enhance your choices and personalize your
experiences.

Many browsers have an option for disabling cookies, which may prevent
your browser from accepting new cookies or enable selective use of
cookies.

**Security** 
-------------

We use physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards to protect your
information. Our infrastructure is hosted and managed within WP Engine.
WP Engine manages risk and undergoes recurring assessments to comply
with industry standards.

Wherever we collect financially sensitive information (such as credit
card data), that information is encrypted and transmitted to us in a
secure way. You can verify this by looking for a closed lock icon at the
bottom of your web browser, or looking for “https” at the beginning of
the address of the web page.

We also protect your personal data offline. Only employees or NumFOCUS
representatives who need the information to perform a specific job (for
example, billing or customer service) are granted access to personal
data. The computers/servers in which we store personal data are kept in
a secure environment.

Please be advised that the security and confidentiality of any
communication or material transmitted through the Internet or any
wireless network, including via the Services, email or text messages,
cannot be and is not guaranteed.

**Legal Basis for Processing Personal Information**
---------------------------------------------------

Our legal basis for collecting and using the personal information
described above will depend on the personal information concerned and
the specific context in which we collect it.

However, we will normally collect personal information from you only (i)
where we need the personal information to perform a contract with you;
(ii) where the processing is in our legitimate interests and not
overridden by your rights; or (iii) where we have your consent to do so.
We have a legitimate interest in operating our Services and
communicating with you as necessary to provide these Services, for
example when responding to your queries, improving our platform,
undertaking marketing, or for the purposes of detecting or preventing
illegal activities.

In some cases, we may also have a legal obligation to collect personal
information from you or may otherwise need the personal information to
protect your vital interests or those of another person.

If we ask you to provide personal information to comply with a legal
requirement or to perform a contract with you, we will make this clear
at the relevant time and advise you whether the provision of your
personal information is mandatory or not (as well as of the possible
consequences if you do not provide your personal information).

**Data Retention**
------------------

We retain personal information we collect from you where we have an
ongoing legitimate business need to do so (for example, to provide you
with a service you have requested or to comply with applicable legal,
tax, or accounting requirements).

We retain personal data collected by Google Analytics for a period of 38
months. For NumFOCUS members, donors, event attendees, contractors, and
mailing list subscribers, personal data is retained for the lifetime of
the NumFOCUS organization. Please see the next section, **Your Data
Protection Rights Under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)**,
for information on how to access, correct, update, or request deletion
of your personal data.

When we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your
personal information, we will either delete or anonymize it or, if this
is not possible (for example, because your personal information has been
stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your personal
information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is
possible.

The information you provide us may be archived or stored periodically by
us according to backup processes conducted in the ordinary course of
business for disaster recovery purposes.

**Your Data Protection Rights Under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)**
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can do the following at any time by contacting us via email at
privacy@numfocus.org:

-   See what data we have about you, if any.

-   Change/correct any data we have about you.

-   Have us delete any data we have about you.

-   Express any concern you have about our use of your data.

To protect your privacy and security, we may also take reasonable steps
to verify your identity before updating or removing your information.

If you are a registered user, you may access certain information
associated with your Account by logging into our Services or emailing
privacy@numfocus.org. If you terminate your Account, any public activity
on your Account prior to deletion may remain stored on our servers and
may remain accessible to the public.

If you are a resident of the EEA, you have the following data protection
rights:

-   If you wish to access, correct, update, or request deletion of your
    > personal data, you can do so at any time by
    > emailing privacy@numfocus.org. Such requests may or may not be
    > honored, depending upon the specific circumstances of the request,
    > as enumerated in the GDPR.

-   In addition, you can object to the processing of your personal
    > information, ask us to restrict the processing of your personal
    > information, or request portability of your personal information.
    > Again, you can exercise these rights by
    > emailing privacy@numfocus.org. Such requests may or may not be
    > honored, depending upon the specific circumstances of the request,
    > as enumerated in the GDPR.

-   You have the right to opt-out of marketing communications we send
    > you at any time. You can exercise this right by clicking on the
    > “unsubscribe” link in the marketing emails we send you or by
    > emailing privacy@numfocus.org.

-   Similarly, if we have collected and process your personal
    > information with your consent, then you can withdraw your consent
    > at any time. Withdrawing your consent will not affect the
    > lawfulness of any processing we conducted prior to your
    > withdrawal, nor will it affect the processing of your personal
    > information conducted in reliance on lawful processing grounds
    > other than consent.

-   You have the right to complain to a data protection authority about
    > our collection and use of your personal information. For more
    > information, please contact your local data protection authority.

We respond to all requests we receive from individuals wishing to
exercise their data protection rights in accordance with applicable data
protection laws.

**Your Choices**
----------------

You can use some of the features of the Services without registering,
thereby limiting the type of information that we collect.

You may unsubscribe from receiving certain promotional emails from us.
If you wish to do so, simply follow the instructions found at the end of
the email. Even if you unsubscribe, we may still contact you for
informational, transactional, account-related, or similar purposes.

**Updates**
-----------

Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time and all updates will be
posted on this page.

**If you have any questions or concerns about this privacy policy,
please contact us via email at privacy@numfocus.org.**

The data controller of your personal information is:

NumFOCUS, Inc.

P.O. Box 90596

Austin, TX, USA 78709

info@numfocus.org

+1 ​(512) 222-5449

For the purposes of GDPR, our NumFOCUS representative in the EU is
Didrik Pinte, NumFOCUS Treasurer, dpinte@enthought.com (Belgium).

July 17, 2018

A history of updates to this privacy policy can be found on GitHub at
<https://github.com/numfocus/privacy-policy>.
